---
note_type: note
tags:   
  - obsidian/plugins/dataview
topics:   
  - metadata
  - fields
  - key
mn: [[21.2.2 Dataview]]
kt: theorical
checked: yes
---
## Adding metadata to my notes
To be query, the data must be indexed. Some data like yaml, bullet points or tasks lists do this automatically (implicit fields), other have to be saved in fields.

### How to add fields
A field represents a pair of a key and a value, where the last one data type determines how the field will behave when querying it. The following are the ways to add fields to a note.  
#### Frontmatter
Frontmatter is a markdown extension that allows YAML to be added. All YAML frontmatter fields are available as Dataview fields. 

#### Inline
Uses the Key::value syntax, allowing my to write my fields directly within the body of the note. If multiple fields are within a sentence or multiple in one line, the simple brackets are required; if the field has its own line without content before, no bracket is required. Finally, using parenthesis will hide the Key. **All content after the :: is the value until a line break.**

>[!Example]
>- Note quality:: 5 starts.
>- Same example with content where the [Note quality:: 5 starts] and I'm [modd:: happy]
>- This will not show the (longKeyIDontNeedWhenReading:: key).

### Field names
Dataview sanitize the field's name erasing spaces and capitalized letters. So, avoid using spaces or capital letters. The same goes to all formatting (italic, bold, etc.)
>[!tip]
>This is a field name -> Sanitized -> this-is-a-field-name

### Implicit fields
Even no metadata be added, dataview provides a wide range of data to be query. 