---
note_type: note
tags:
  - obsidian/plugins/templater
topics:
  - templater
  - templater_functions
mn: [[21.2.1 Templater]]
kt: theorical
checked: yes
---
Internal functions and variables are available under eight different modules
### Config Module

- tp.config.active_file
- tp.config.run_mode
- tp.config.target_file
- tp.config.template_file

### Date module
>[!tip]- tp.date.now(format: string = "YYYY-MM-DD", offset?: number⎮string, reference?: string, reference_format?: string). 
>- Retrieves a date.
>- format: refer to [this format](https://momentjs.com/docs/#/displaying/format/)
>- offset: 0 today's date, 1 tomorrow, -7 last week's date. 

>[!tip]- tp.date.tomorrow(format: String = "YYYY-MM-DD")
>- Retrieves tomorrow's date. 

>[!tip]- tp.date.yesterday(format: String = "YYYY-MM-DD")
>- retrieves yesterday's date.

>[!tip]- tp.date.weekday(format: string = "YYYY-MM-DD", weekday: number, reference?: string, reference_format?: string)
>- weekday: 0 is the "starting" sunday of this week, 7 is the end sunday of the present week; thus, -1 will show saturday of last week. 


### File module
>[!tip]- tp.file.content 
>retrieves file's content.

>[!tip]- tp.file.create_new(template: TFile ⎮ string, filename?: string, open_new: boolean = false, folder?: TFolder)
>Creates a new note based on a template or content.
>template: the template name or file content to create the note.
>open_new:  whether to open or not the newly created file.
>folder: folder name where the new note is putted. 

>[!tip]- tp.file.creation_date(format: string = "YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm")
>Retrieves the note's creation date.

>[!tip]- tp.file.exists(filename: string)
>-Check the existence of a file. 
>- filename: path of the file + the extension, e.g. "100 Lobules/10 MM.md"

>[!tip]- tp.file.last_modified_date(format: string = "YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm")
>- Retrieves file last modification date.

>[!tip]- tp.file.selection()
>- Retrieves the active file's text mouse selection.

>[!tip]- tp.file.tags()
>- Retrieves the file's tags.

>[!tip]- tp.file.title()
>- Retrieves the file title.
>- tp.file.title.split(" ")[0] this extracts the file's name first word. 

>[!tip]- Another modules 
>- tp.file.cursor(order?: number)
>- tp.file.cursor_append(content: string)
>- tp.file.find_tfile(filename: string)
>- tp.file.folder(relative: boolean = false)
>- tp.file.move(new_path: string, file_to_move?: TFile)
>- tp.file.path(relative: boolean = false)
>- 

### Frontmatter module
>[!tip]- tp.frontmatter.<frontmatter_variable_name>
>- Retrieves the file's front matter value.
>- tp.frontmatter.alias 
>- tp.frontmatter["note type"]
>	- Detail when the frontmatter attribute is a compound word, the [""] is required.

### System module
>[!tip]- tp.system.prompt(prompt_text?: string, default_value?: string, throw_on_cancel: boolean = false, multiline?: boolean = false)
>- throw_on_cancel: throws an error if the prompt is cancel. 
>- multiline = true: the input will be a multiline textarea.
>- tp.system.prompt("Please enter a value"). The tp code will be replaced with the text I enter.

---

