---
note_type: note
tags:
  - obsidian/vault_maintenance
topics:
  - vault_maintenance
  - pkm
  - notes
mn:
  - 21.3 Vault maintenace
kt: theorical
checked: yes
resources:
---
[[11.3 Vault maintenance]]

---
## For atomic notes
Good metadata provides a general overview of the note content, "it should summarizes the note." Here are the YAML details: 
- Note Type: note, moc, mm, or bn. 
	- If a note is receiving multiple links, or, its content has many headers more than three or four. Consider upgrading the status to moc. . 
- tags: write the moc / mn-bn in the tag. The same number structure should be use in the tag section . **Always try to encapsulate topics to avoid collect massive amount of tags**
- topics.: Extract from the keywords at the end of every note. Write them in preview mode to try to encapsulate or avoid repetition. 
	- Why? If I want to review all the notes that talk about a String class, java/classes/string will only show me that specific notes, maybe another note main topic is not string, but includes something important, thus my search could be: tag java topic string, and thus I will find all notes that includes string information. 
- mn: or Mother Note, simply is the mother note of the actual note, that could be a moc or mm. 
- last modification date.
- kt: knowledge type: theorical or practical. 
- alias: only use on mn and bn, for know, it will make things easy when linking notes, the alias must be concrete and include the mn/bn title. ==This useful?==
- Checked: if I read at least twice the note to depurate it. yes or blank.
- Resources: all the link that feed the note, this will result in a query in the MOC. 

Within the note:
1. Create a tag for pending things within the note '#to-do', then describe in detail the pending task.
2. In case a reference to a book or source knowledge have to be done, follow the [[21.1 Footnote]] example.
3. Must headers:
	1. Questions.
	2. Reference. Where I obtain the information in the note. A dataview table must be shown in the mn and moc.
	3. Keywords. Dictionary like header with the keywods of the note or bn. ==peding for know== create a dictionaty in the mn? od in the bn? 
	4. Overview: excalidraw summary of the note content. Only images and small sentences, zero detail here, ==for now==. 

Note? or MN
For now, I decide to have only one MOC but several MN. Take the example of templater. Writing only one note of it will create a massive note, but... That's fine; I can create a table of content and navigate smoothly within the note.

If that note, at some point, involves a different topic or maybe combine two or more subject, another note should be created. 

~~Tbh, there is no point to create atomic notes to talk about the same exact topic, for example, remember when I was reading the documentation of Templater, at first glance I almost create several notes, but.. What's the point, is the same topic. 
~~ 
There is an actual reason to create atomic notes, even for the same topic and is searching ease. For example, I can create a BN for the String class that contains all the most used methods. When searching, how can I find a specific method within all the note if everything is there? Crtl F sucks, therefore, atomic notes are required. 

Good practices:
1. Avoid at all costs create notes that forces me in a future to go to the source of the information.
2. Be specific and make every word counts.
3. Be descriptive and provide enough context to the examples.
4. Be specific with the examples. Mention the requires, the approach, the method used and the workflow. 
5. If a note has many headers or to many information **be mindful** and smart to check if the note could be divided in two or more notes, or even upgrade to a MN. 
6. Always try to link new notes to others. 

### Notes that 'belong' to two mocs or mn
Just decide in which moc the note will be and make sure to write the appropriate tags. 

# Notes showdown
## MOCS
1. Crete a to-do metadata query to review to-do tasks.

## Mother note
Notes that are not that big to be a moc, but encapsulate several topics, for example, obsidian plugins, java classes, java datatypes, etc.

Mother notes works the same as a moc, they re-directs me to a note, and have a dataview query showing the main things of every topic.

## Big note
Note that contain information of only **one** topic, that contains embedded all the atomic notes of that topic. It has a table of content 

## Atomic notes
Notes that contains specific information of one subject. Must be specific and condense. 