---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - react
  - props
mn: "[[12.12 React]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.12 React|React]]

Data is transfer from parent to child components one-directionally via props, when the parent is invoking the children. Props are immutable, read-only in the child; any attempt to change a prop won't actually change the prop value **as far as React** is concerned. This happens because when the component is being called by the father, it creates a closure over the props is receives, meaning throughout the render cycle, the props value remains what it was passed, regardless of any attempts to change it locally. 

If the component function change the props value passed by its father, a new **local variable** with the same name will be created, therefore, the original `props` value won't be modify. 

This means throughout the render cycle, the `props` value is the same, regardless if it was change within the function implementation. 

Changes to a component state don't affect automatically its parent or siblings. 

Props reflect a component's data at any point in time, rather than only in the beginning, but a prop will be always immutable. So, if a component needs to change its props, it will have to ask its parent component to pass it different props (a new object). 

**Don't change props**, instead set a state. 

I can pass HTML attributes, objects, arrays an functions (even events). 

```jsx
function ParentComponent() {
  const [parentData, setParentData] = useState("Parent data");
  
  return (
    <div>
      <ChildComponent1 data={parentData} />
      <ChildComponent2 />
    </div>
  );
}

function ChildComponent1({ data }) {
  const [childData, setChildData] = useState("Child data");
  
  // Changes to childData will only affect this component
  // and its children (if it had any)
  // It won't affect ParentComponent or ChildComponent2
  
  return <div>{data} - {childData}</div>;
}
```