---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - typescript
  - generics
mn: "[[12.14 Typescript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.14 Typescript|Typescript]]

# About generics
Generics are a feature that allow to create reusable, type-safe functions, interfaces and classes. For example, when writing a function that work with an specific type, like number, if I want that function to work with other type, I'd have to duplicate the code or use `any`. Generics solve that problem by allowing to write code that works with any type and still enforcing type constraints. 

So, instead of a single type, by accepting 'type parameters' that specify which type it should use for a particular variable instance or function invocation. 

Type parameters are use to create generic versions of functions, interfaces and classes. 
## About type parameters
Special parameters that act as placeholders for actual types. They specify the type a particular object instance or function invocation will use. For example, thanks to type parameters, a class can be instantiated several times with different types each time. The type passed to the type parameter determines the type that instance will use. 

Type parameters are listed separate from function or constructor parameters. The use the `<>` notation before the parenthesis surrounding the function parameters, in the case of a function call. Type parameters are represented conventionally with a T, like `Array<T>`, but I can use any letter. 

>Just as values for function parameters are provided when the function is called, the actual type that will be used with a generic is provided when the instance is created of the function invoked. 

