---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - free_resources
  - the_odin_project_TOP
mn: "[[12.1 Guidelines]]"
kt: theorical
checked: yes
resources:
  - "[The Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com)"
---
[[12.1 Guidelines]]
## How TOP works?
Lessons will introduce the topic, providing useful context before pointing to external resources. 
>[!quote]
>Try not to think of The Odin Project, or programming, as a class in school. It’s not material you learn all at once to take a test, and then pass or fail. You can think of it as a snowball. You, yourself, are a snowball. You’re rolling down a hill full of snow; the further you roll, the more snow will stick to you. Sure, snow will also fall off you, and you’ll forget things often, but that’s just part of the process.

TOP is maintained by professionals, choosing the best resources on the web; meaning **everything** in the curriculum is intentionally included and vital for me as a programmer. ==Every resource is a must read and must be documented here properly.==

Simply, ==don't skip anything==.

## Why TOP?
The Odin Project takes a realistic view of what you need to know and has you set up and work in your own environment, much like what you’ll be doing when you get a job.

It acknowledges that you need a wide variety of skill sets and languages to reach an employable level.
## Motivation and mindset
- Your mindset will have more of an impact on your chances of success than just about anything else.
- Struggling with something is growth.

This course is very research based, meaning you will have to do research to complete tasks and projects.

==Long story short: Don’t worry, just go learn!==

>[!quote] In TOP developers words
>**We have put a lot of effort into structuring the curriculum** so that all of the important things that you need to know about web development are covered exactly when you need to know them.

Remember review [[29.1 Learning to code when it gets dark]]
## Asking for help
In a programming environment it is essential to ask well formed questions with as much context as needed so you can get the most out of asking for help.
### Tips to get the best help possible
- Always provide my code, error message, terminal command, etc. And the surrounding context pointing to a specific function or code line. This prevents back and forth context conversation that leads to not getting an appropriate answer.
- As about the problem at hand, not the solution itself. People should know what I've tried that not might have worked yet. Also, figuring an approach by myself is essential in my learning journey. 
- Don't take asking for more context to heart, meaning, what for me may be obvious, for another person don't. 

### Prepare my question
1. Provide a link to the lesson/project.
2. Provide code, pseudo-code or other relevant information. When my code has several lines of code, I should use a externa service:
	1. [CodePen](https://codepen.io/) for basic HTML/CSS/JS
	2. - [Replit](https://replit.com/) for Javascript/Ruby.
	3. [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/) for Webpack/React.
	4. [Pastebin](http://pastebin.com/) for error messages or server output.
3. Explain the problem and the steps needed to reproduce the problem. 
4. Describe what I'm expecting. 
5. Summarize what I've tried. 

### Appl the rubber duck debugging
When stuck in a problem, this debugging technic require me to explain what my code goal is to anybody, even an object, could help to get the right approach, find the solution and move on. This with draws, natural English words, etc. 