---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - typescript
  - type_checking
mn: "[[12.14 Typescript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.14 Typescript|Typescript]]

# About type checking
Type checking is an attempt to evaluate the question of compatibility or type equivalence. Meaning, "“is type y equivalent to type x? —> “does the type of y fit within the type of x?" Or in terms of sets, is one type the subset of another type?

For example, if my function returns an string of arrays but returns a number, the type checking is not equivalent. 
# About static vs dynamic typing
Dynamic types are the way JS works, assuming the type of each variable at runtime. Static types, the ones use in TS, are types defined within the code and analyze at build time. 

# Nominal vs structural type system
In nominal type systems, only matters if the object is an instance of a specific class, regardless of their properties. 

In the other hand, for structural type systems like TS, it doesn't matter where the object comes from or which constructor was used to build the object; only matters if the object follows a required structure of properties, methods, index signature, etc. 

For example, the function requires an object parameter whose properties are make, model, and year. Is not looking for a specific instance of type `car`. 

In this example the print car function is requesting something whose first and second property are strings, and the third one is a number. Hence, any instance fulfilling that criteria can use the function. 

If that condition is met, it doesn't matter if the object has more properties. 

```ts
class Car {
  make: string
  model: string
  year: number
  isElectric: boolean
}
 
class Truck {
  make: string
  model: string
  year: number
  towingCapacity: number
}
 
const vehicle = {
  make: "Honda",
  model: "Accord",
  year: 2017,
}
 
function printCar(car: {
  make: string
  model: string
  year: number
}) {
  console.log(`${car.make} ${car.model} (${car.year})`)
}
 
printCar(new Car()) // Fine
printCar(new Truck()) // Fine
printCar(vehicle) // Fine
```

>[!important]
>Going back to the concept
>“is type y equivalent to type x? —> “does the type of y fit within the type of x?
>
In typescript, this is answered as
“is type y equivalent to type x? —> “is the set represented by y a subset of the set representing x?

