---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - react
  - useeffect
mn: "[[12.12 React]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.12 React|React]]

For components: a component mounts when it’s added to the screen, updates when it receives new props or state, usually in response to an interaction, finally, unmounts when it’s removed from the screen. However, effects are independent from the component lifecycle. 

In this example, the user picks a room id, React starts sync to connect the user to the general room; the cleanup function is not called (the component hasn't been unmounted). The comments in this code shows how effect works: the effect do something, sync something, until, in this case, the room is disconnected. 

```jsx
 function ChatRoom({ roomId /* "travel" */ }) {
	 useEffect(() => {
	    // Your Effect connected to the room specified with roomId...
	    const connection = createConnection(serverUrl, roomId);
	    connection.connect();
	    return () => {
	      // ...until it disconnected
	      connection.disconnect();
	    };
	  }, [roomId]);
```

When the user picks a different room, what the last effect did is not matching the new UI, therefore, react needs to stop sync with the older room and sync with the new one. So, first React will update the UI (unmounting the component), then, the cleanup function is called, and the new effect takes place. 

This is what happens from the component's perspective: 
1. ChatRoom mounted with roomId set to "general"
2. ChatRoom updated with roomId set to "travel"
3. ChatRoom updated with roomId set to "music"
4. ChatRoom unmounted

This is what happen with the effect:
1. Your Effect connected to the "general" room
2. Your Effect disconnected from the "general" room and connected to the "travel" room
3. Your Effect disconnected from the "travel" room and connected to the "music" room
4. Your Effect disconnected from the "music" room

>[!important]
>Always focus on a single start/stop cycle at a time. It shouldn’t matter whether a component is mounting, updating, or unmounting. All you need to do is to describe how to start synchronization and how to stop it. Is **not** recommended to think of effect as callbacks that fire 'after a render' or 'before unmount'. 

## How react verifies if an effect can re-sync
React starts and stops your Effect one extra time in development to check you’ve implemented its cleanup well, like open a door and closing an extra time to check if the lock works. 

In practice, if data the effect uses change, it needs to re-sync.

