---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - internet
  - web_design
mn: "[[12.2 The internet]]"
kt: theorical
checked: true
resources:
  - "[How do I start to design my website?](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/Design_and_accessibility/Thinking_before_coding)"
overview:
---
[[12.2 The internet]]
## Summary
What really matters is _what I want to accomplish._ Prior to do anything, I should ask to myself:
1. What exactly do I want to accomplish?
2. How will a website help me reach my goals?
3. What needs to be a done, and in what order to reach my goals? 

This is call **project ideation** and is a necessary first step to reach my goals; the technicalities goes after.  

>[!note]
>The whole project ideation is a compound of what professionals call project ideation, project planning and project management. Here is a simple method to handle those three. 

## What exactly do I want to accomplish?
The most important question to answer. Once I made the list, prioritize is the second step. 

## How could a website bring me to my goals?
This is the example used in the article. A musician have this prioritized goals:
1. Find a new apartment.
2. Let people hear your music.
3. Talk about your music.
4. Meet other musicians.
5. Sell goodies.
6. Teach music through videos.
7. Publish photos of your cats.

For the first and last goal are already plenty of sites that do the same. Thus, building a website that help the musician accomplish the 2 to 6 goals is the way the website will help this person reach his goal.

## What needs to be done and in what order to reach my goals?
Turn the goals into actionable step without set those in stone. 