---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - ruby
  - active_record
  - orm
  - migrations
mn: "[[12.4 Ruby]]"
kt: theorical
checked: 
---
[[12.4 Ruby|Ruby]]

Image I have a database already set up in production with a defined schema. That schema is 'lockdown' so I have not an easy way to modify my whole database, unless I use migrations.

## What are migrations
Migrations are a convenient way to alter your database schema over time in a consistent way. They use a Ruby DSL so that you don't have to write SQL by hand, allowing your schema and changes to be database independent. I can use `change`, `up` or `down` methods to achieve this.  

This is why, all the methods that build the database are defined with either up (a forward migration to a new state of the database) or down (move the database forward, to a past state).

You can think of each migration as being a new 'version' of the database. A schema starts off with nothing in it, and each migration modifies it to add or remove tables, columns, or entries. Active Record knows how to update your schema along this timeline, bringing it from whatever point it is in the history to the latest version. Active Record will also update your db/schema.rb file to match the up-to-date structure of your database.

>[!important]
>- When making a migration, the data can be lost completely. So always, back up first prior to make any migration.
>- Migrations are not unique to AR, but to every ORM (for example, laravel). 
>- I can between schemas **in production** in portions. 

## Running migrations development vs production
I can run as many migrations up and down I want. However:
- Development: I could have one migration file, with even one up, down or the other method, that I can keep editing. 
- Production: for every migration I must need a single file with all the details of the migration for any up or down movement. 
