---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - ruby
  - active_record
  - orm
mn: "[[12.4 Ruby]]"
kt: theorical
checked: 
---
[[12.4 Ruby|Ruby]]

Active record is one of the seven gems that compound Rails, that is in charge of all the database stuff; it's also known as an ORM.

Active Record is the M in MVC - the model - which is the layer of the system responsible for representing business data and logic. Active Record facilitates the creation and use of business objects whose data requires persistent storage to a database. It is an implementation of the Active Record pattern which itself is a description of an Object Relational Mapping system.

## What is an ORM and AR?
AR is the ORM of Rails. It takes data stored in a database table using rows and columns, which needs to be modified or retrieved by writing SQL statements (if you’re using a SQL database), and it lets you interact with that data as though it was a normal Ruby object.

Active record is the interface that Rails place between the database and the application, thus, instead of writing SQL queries (`SELECT * FROM users` and then covert the output into an array) I can type pure Ruby code (`User.all`) to obtain the same or even better results. 

>[!warning] It doesn't matter which database the project is using
>as long as you’ve set up the `config/database.yml` file properly, AR smooths all the differences between databases. This means if the project change from one database to another, the source code doesn't need to change, just the configuration files.

