---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - ruby
  - variables
mn: "[[12.4 Ruby]]"
kt: theorical
checked: 
resources:
  -
---
[[12.4 Ruby|Ruby]]

## Constants
>[!multi-column]
>
>Constants in Ruby are all caps but still using snake case. Unlike other languages, Ruby allow to redefine constants. However, this will trigger a warning.  Constants cannot be declared in method definitions, and are available throughout your application's scopes.
>
>```ruby
>NUMBER_OF_ARMS = 2
>NUMBER_OF_ARMS = 1
>```

## Global variables
>[!multi-column]
>
>Begin with `$` These variables are available throughout your entire app, overriding all scope boundaries. They shouldn't be use at all. 
>
>```ruby
>$var = ' Any value'
>```

## Class variables
>[!multi-column]
>
>Declare with `@@` and they are shared among all instances of a class and any subclasses. They act as classic object's attributes. This variables must be initialized at the class level, outside of any method definitions. They are accessible at the class level and within instance methods. Class variables are shared among all instances of a class and any subclasses. Changes made to class variables affect all instances and subclasses of the class. They are initialized when first assigned within the class definition or when they are first referenced.
>
>```ruby
>class Example
>  @@class_variable = 0
  >
>  def self.increment_class_variable
>    @@class_variable += 1
>  end
 > 
>```

>[!info]
>Class variables are rarely need and easily misused. 
## Instance variables
Declare with `@`, they belong to a specific instance of a class. They are accessible only within the instance of the class in which they are defined. They are typically initialized within the initialize method of a class.

```ruby
class Person
  def initialize(name, age)
    @name = name
    @age = age
  end
  
  def introduce
    "Hello, my name is #{@name} and I am #{@age} years old."
  end
end
 
```

[question:: instance variables vs class variables. Are class variables really that useful?]
## Local variables
Don't use any capitalized letters, and obey all scope boundaries. Remember local variables can [[22.4 Naming variables and reusing variable names#Assigning values to the same variable| work with the same variables]] over and over. 