---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - webpack
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.5 Javascript|JavaScript]]

ESM have some performance issues when dealing with multiple modules the browser have to download individually (especially as more third-party libraries would be imported).

Bundlers need an entry point to build a dependency graph for a file, to combine all relevant files together and outputs a single file with all necessary code included. Bundlers also can minifying my code, optimize images or even tree shaking.

Another bundler is Rspack (it has its own builder Rsbuild). 

## The Webpack solution
Implicit dependency happens when a script uses a library or dependency without explicitly importing in within the script.

For example, the following file is not explicitly making an import, so the file assumes the dependency is already loaded in the global scope using the `script` tag.

```js
// index.js
function component() {
  const element = document.createElement('div');

  // Lodash, currently included via a script, is required for this line to work
  element.innerHTML = _.join(['Hello', 'webpack'], ' ');

  return element;
}

document.body.appendChild(component());
```

This implicit dependency required the dependency to be loaded before the js file, therefore, my HTML file must be like this. First the dependency, then the script. 

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Getting Started</title>
    <script src="https://unpkg.com/lodash@4.17.20"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src="./src/index.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

This is a problem in complex projects as this implicit dependencies not always happen in the expected order (importing first the script and then the dependency break the code). Additionally, if a dependency is included but not used, the browser will be forced to downloaded unnecessary code. 

With Webpack, the imports are typically made directly into the JS file, making the dependency explicit to be manage by Webpack, creating a dependency graph to generate an optimize bundle where scripts are executed in the correct order. Additionally, id a module isn't used, it won't be included in the final bundle. 

```js
import _ from 'lodash';

 function component() {
   const element = document.createElement('div');

  // Lodash, now imported by this script
   element.innerHTML = _.join(['Hello', 'webpack'], ' ');

   return element;
 }

 document.body.appendChild(component());
```

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
 <html>
   <head>
     <meta charset="utf-8" />
     <title>Getting Started</title>
   </head>
   <body>
    <script src="main.js"></script>
   </body>
 </html>
```

