---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - functions
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: 
resources:
  -
---
[[12.5 Javascript|JavaScript]]

No matter how the function is created, a function is a value. However, is quite different to invoke or manipulate the function, as a function declaration `sayHi()` with the parenthesis, or as a function expression `sayHi`, without the parenthesis. 

>[!important]
>At the beginning all variables are anonymous variables, but when they get a name assigned, I'm telling the script that name is the variable named that gets assigned the whole function script. 
## Function reference
In general, function references "paste/provide its definition" when the reference is used, they **don't** provide a return value to be used directly. 
### Un-bind functions
#### Named functions
The reference is the function identifier (is not a variable in the sense the name is not a created binding like `let test = function test () {}:`), **without the parenthesis** will "return" its function **implementation**. 

In this case, I'm telling my script to print the identifier `sayHi`, that's the whole function script.

```javascript
function sayHi() {
  alert( "Hello" );
}
alert( sayHi ); 
//function sayHi() {
  //alert( "Hello" );
//}
```

I can, then, manipulate the function as a variable to do things like this:

```javascript
function sayHi() {   // (1) create
  alert( "Hello" );
}
let func = sayHi;    // (2) copy. Detail no (), function as variable
func(); // Hello     // (3) run the copy (it works)!
sayHi(); // Hello    //     this still works too (why wouldn't it)
```

#### Anonymous functions
The reference is the whole function declaration. This is why in [[22.5 Callback functions#^6a31d0|this example]] when invoking the high-end function, the arguments are function references wrote as anonymous functions declarations.  
### Bind functions
When I bind the function identifier to a variable, it'll act as the function identifier regardless if its an anonymous or name function. 

Another way to do the same thing, is to use a function expression. 
```javascript
let sayHi = function() { // (1) create
  alert( "Hello" );
};

let func = sayHi;
// ...
```


## Function call
Function calls like `sayHi()` include the parenthesis and they execute the function and **pass to**, for example a [[22.5 Callback functions|callback]], their return value. 