---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - forms
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.5 Javascript|JavaScript]]


Client side validation lets the client fix any error before submitting to the server, though is not considered an exhaustive security measure, thus, server-side validation is required. Never trust client's data even if the validation is correct. 

## Built-in form validation 
Uses HTML form validation native from HTML, they have better performance, but are not customizable as JS validation. Some example are:

>[!multi-column]
>
>[[22.7 Required attribute validation|required]]
>
>[[22.7 Text length validation|min and max length]]
>
>[[22.7 Number range validations|min and max]]
>
>[[22.7 The input element|input]]
>
>[[22.7 Pattern validations|pattern]]

If the data is valid the element matches the `:valid` CSS pseudo-class, other wise matches the `:invalid`. 

The automated error messages when a user tries to submit an invalid form can't be change with CSS, they depend on the browser completely. 

## JS validation 
Though there are several API, the constraint is one of the most famous. It works with button, fieldset, input, output, select and text area HTML elements. 

[This](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/Form_validation#the_constraint_validation_api) are the properties available for the elements by the API, and below that are methods for the elements and also the form element. However, [this is the documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Constraint_validation), and [this website](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_validation_api.asp) provide a detail explanation of the methods and properties. 

The constraint API allow to customize the error messages.

```html
<form>
  <label for="mail">
    I would like you to provide me with an email address:
  </label>
  <input type="email" id="mail" name="mail" />
  <button>Submit</button>
</form>
```

>Inside the event I can place several if statements if needed. 

```js
const email = document.getElementById("mail");

email.addEventListener("input", (event) => {
  if (email.validity.typeMismatch) {
    email.setCustomValidity("I am expecting an email address!");
  } else {
    email.setCustomValidity("");
  }
});
```

## Creating custom errors
To disable browser, and prevent the form to show its own error messages, add the `novalidate` attribute to the form tag. This is also a good way to test if my JS has enough validation. 

I should include a span element with the `aria-live="polite"` attribute, thus the error is presented to everyone even screen readers. 

```html
<form novalidate>
  <p>
    <label for="mail">
      <span>Please enter an email address:</span>
      <input type="email" id="mail" name="mail" required minlength="8" />
      <span class="error" aria-live="polite"></span>
    </label>
  </p>
  <button>Submit</button>
</form>
```

Then check the [more detail example here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/Form_validation#the_constraint_validation_api). Additionally I can use plan JS logic if I want to test very specific user inputs. 
