---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - functions
  - return
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: true
---
[[12.5 Javascript|JavaScript]]

All JS functions return something when they are invoke. If I don't use a return statement directly, but my function is using another function that has a return value, my original function will return that.  


>[!important]
>When creating a function is always better to return something instead of put `console.log`

## When to use the return statement
Generally, a return value is used where the function is an intermediate step in a calculation of some kind.

## The return statement
Also, the `return` statement can be in any place of the function or be multiple times, and as soon as the interpreter reaches it, the function stops and the value is returned. 

>[!example]
>```javascript
>function checkAge(age) {
>  if (age >= 18) {
>    return true;
>  } else {
>    return confirm('Do you have permission from your parents?');
>  }
>}
>```

I can use the return value of a function within another function like in this example, in which the random function has a return value that is being used. 
## Using return values in functions
A function argument can be the return value of a function. 

```javascript
function draw() {
  ctx.clearRect(0, 0, WIDTH, HEIGHT);
  for (let i = 0; i < 100; i++) {
    ctx.beginPath();
    ctx.fillStyle = "rgb(255 0 0 / 50%)";
    ctx.arc(random(WIDTH), random(HEIGHT), random(50), 0, 2 * Math.PI);
    ctx.fill();
  }}
```

In this example, the random function has a return type the draw function is using, so in reality, the line would run as:

```javascript
ctx.arc(500, 200, 35, 0, 2 * Math.PI);
```

>First the function calls are run, then the return values are substituted.
>Remember arrow functions can return values automatically.
## Void/undefined functions
Functions that don't return a specific data type or doesn't have a return statement are called either void or undefined function. 


>[!important] A function with an empty return or without it returns undefined
>```javascript
>function doNothing() { /* empty */ }
>
>alert( doNothing() === undefined ); // true
>```
>This is another example
>```javascript
>function doNothing() {
  return;
>}
>
>alert( doNothing() === undefined ); // true
>```

## How to exit a function immediately
Doing this will cause the function to exit immediately. 

```javascript
function showMovie(age) {
  if ( !checkAge(age) ) {
    return;
  }

  alert( "Showing you the movie" ); // (*)
  // ...
}
```

In this example if `checkAge(age)` returns false, the alert is never reached. 
## Use parenthesis for long return statements
If an return expression is long, is preferable to use parenthesis as javascript will assume the break line as the end of an statement. 

```javascript
return
 (some + long + expression + or + whatever * f(a) + f(b))
```

JS assumes a semicolon at the end of the return like this:

```javascript
return;
 (some + long + expression + or + whatever * f(a) + f(b))
```

Better do this:
```javascript
return (
  some + long + expression
  + or +
  whatever * f(a) + f(b)
  )
```
