---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - webpack
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.5 Javascript|JavaScript]]
## Loading CSS
Install two more webpack [[22.5 Webpack core concepts#Loaders|loaders]] `npm install --save-dev style-loader css-loader`. The order webpack bundles css: 

1. CSS loader: read any CSS file imported in a JS file and store the result in a string.
2. Style loader: takes the CSS loader string and adds the JS code that will apply those styles to the page.
3. Injects 2 into the final bundle, usually creating a `style` tag in the HTML file or a separate CSS file that gets automatically linked. 

>[!warning] Loader order matters for CSS
>Chain loaders execute in reverse order, thus, the **array must end** with `css-loader`, then use `style-loader` to inject the JS that applies the CSS in that string to the page.  

```js
// webpack.config.js
const path = require("path");
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require("html-webpack-plugin");

module.exports = {
  mode: "development",
  entry: "./src/index.js",
  output: {
    filename: "main.js",
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist"),
    clean: true,
  },
  plugins: [
    new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
      template: "./src/template.html",
    }),
  ],
  // The below is new
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/i,
        use: ["style-loader", "css-loader"],
      },
    ],
  },
};

```

The configuration enables to `import './style.css'` into the file that depends on that styling. 

Now I  import that CSS into a JS file, not an HTML file. I don't need anything specific from the CSS file since the CSS and style loaders will handle that, thus I can make a side effect import. Because the entry point is `index.js`, the file having import the CSS file should look like this.

>[!important]
>This is a side effect import, in which the module code runs, but any important value is being imported.

```js
// greeting.js
export const greeting = "Hello, Odinite!";
```

```css
/* styles.css */
.hello {
  color: red;
}
```

```js
// index.js
import _ from 'lodash';
import './style.css';

 function component() {
   const element = document.createElement('div');

   // Lodash, now imported by this script
   element.innerHTML = _.join(['Hello', 'webpack'], ' ');
  element.classList.add('hello');

   return element;
 }

 document.body.appendChild(component());
```

After this, run `npx webpack`. 
### No more `link` tags in HTML when using webpack
Detail the CSS file is NOT link with the HTML template file, thus, small CSS files can be imported to its modules. It becomes easier to work with multiple smaller CSS files that you import in the modules they’re needed. 

>[!multi-column]
>
>>Traditionally, I use a link tag to link my CSS files directly into my HTML. This approach makes every CSS file global scope, that in large project can be cumbersome to manage. 
>
>>Webpack don't use this approach, because projects have many components and modules, and each component might have its own CSS. 

With Webpack I import the CSS files directly into JS modules to keep CSS close to the components that use it, creating a scope, and no need for add/remove link tags as I add/remove features. 

>The key point is that you're not actually "using CSS in a JS file" in the way you might be thinking. You're just telling Webpack where to find your CSS, and it handles including that CSS in your final, bundled application.


### Component-base development
I some frameworks and libraries like React, Vue or Angular is usual to create the structure (HTML), behavior (JS) and sometimes the styling (CSS). This is a React component for example. Detail I'm working on a button, thus, I should only include the CSS for that button.

```js
// Button.js
import React from 'react';
import './Button.css';  // Importing the CSS for this component

function Button() {
  return <button className="my-button">Click me</button>;
}

export default Button;
```

```css
/* Button.css */
.my-button {
  background-color: blue;
  color: white;
}
```

When webpack processes the JS file it sees the CSS import and it'll include those styles in the final bundle.

### Non component-base development
For non component-base development I might organize my JS code around specific functionalities.

```js
// navbar.js
import './navbar.css';

// JavaScript to handle navbar functionality
document.querySelector('.navbar-toggle').addEventListener('click', function() {
  // Toggle navbar
});
```
