---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - webpack
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.5 Javascript|JavaScript]]

## Entry points 
Module or modules webpack should use to begin building the dependency graph. Webpack will figure out which other modules and libraries that entry point depends on.

Its default value is `./src/index.js`, but I can set one or multiple entry points using the `entry` property:

```js
module.exports = {
  entry: './path/to/my/entry/file.js',
};
```

## Output
Tells webpack where to emit the bundles (`output.path`) and how to name the files (`output.filename`). Default value: `.dist/main.js` for the main file and `./dist` to any other generated file.

The require at the top is necessary for Node to manage file paths. 

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './path/to/my/entry/file.js',
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
    filename: 'my-first-webpack.bundle.js',
  },
};
```

## Loaders
By default, Webpack only understands JS and JSON files. But loaders allow webpack to process other file types to convert them into valid modules that can be use for the application and added to the dependency graph.  A loader is not a JS dependency, they are specific to the Webpack ecosystem. 

Loaders are added to `module.rules` using two main flags: `test` regex (usually don't use quotes here) that identifies which files should be transform; and `use` indicates which loader should be used to do the transforming. 

This example tells Webpack when coming across a path that resolves to a `.txt` file inside of a `require()` or `import` statement, use the `raw-loader` to transform it before bundling.  

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  output: {
    filename: 'my-first-webpack.bundle.js',
  },
  module: {
    rules: [{ test: /\.txt$/, use: 'raw-loader' }],
  },
};
```

>[!important]
>Some loaders can be chain, like the one with [[22.5 Handling CSS#Loading CSS|loading CSS]]. The last loader in the chain must return a JS file. 
## Plugins
Use for any kind of task like bundle optimization, asset management, etc. To use a plugin I have to `require()` it at the top, and then added to the `plugins` array. 

Plugins can be use multiple times in a configuration, therefore, I need to create an instance by calling the `new` operator.

This example is using the webpack plugin, to use all of the [built-in plugins](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/). 

```js
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin');
const webpack = require('webpack'); //to access built-in plugins

module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [{ test: /\.txt$/, use: 'raw-loader' }],
  },
  plugins: [new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ template: './src/index.html' })],
};
```

## Mode
[[22.5 Webpack modes|See the full note for webpack modes]].

