---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - variables
  - constants
  - var
  - const
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: true
---
[[12.5 Javascript|Javascript]]
## Variable
A variable is a label I put to some data that point to a place in the memory. 

>[!multi-column]
>
>Generally, they are declare using let. This way of declaring improve readability. 
>
>>```JS
>>let user = "john",
>>     age = 25,
>>     message = "hi";
>>```

A variable must be declared once, but could assigned several times. Double declaration is a mistake ([[22.5 var - variable and function hoisting with var -  var within the window object#^413e3d|unless I use var]]).

>[!example]
>```JS
>let message = "this";
>let message = "that"; // This will cause an error. 
>
>let dog = 'rino';
>dog = 'firu'; // Re assignation - no error
>let test = 10;
test = 20; // Re assignation - no error
>
>var test = 1;
>var test = 2; // This won't cause an error
>
>```

>[!info] For naming the variables:
>- The name must container letters, numbers or $ and _
>- The first character must not be a digit. 
>- Variable naming is case sensitive.
>- Don’t be a reserve e word. 
>- Camelcase is commonly used. 
>- Variable names are case sensitive. 

Initialization a variable without declaring it (without using let, var, const) will work but is not recommendable , this will affect the scope directly. 
## Constants
Constants are variables declared with const. They can’t be re-declare or re-assigned after the first declaration. 

>[!example]
>```javascript
>const COLOR_RED = “#F00”;
>COLOR_RED = 123; //This line is a mistake.  
>```

>[!info] When to use capital letters or normal for constant names?
>When a constant is known before execution (hard-coded), use capital. When a constant is calculated in runtime and don’t change once is calculated, use normal. 

## Variable declaration shorthand
It will make the definitions from left to right. 
```js
let a = 10, b = 20, c = 30; d = a + b; //or like this
let a = 10, 
	b = 20,
	c = 30,
	d = a + b;
```