---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - webpack
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.5 Javascript|JavaScript]]

## Handling HTML
Webpack only bundle JS and JSON files directly, however, the `HtmlWebpackPlugin` plugin allow me to.

Run `npm install --save-dev html-webpack-plugin`, detail this is a development dependency.

Then create `template.html` (or chose whatever name) inside `src` and put the HTML boilerplate, without any script tag as the dependency will automatically add the output bundle as a script tag. Now modify the webpack configuration file.

>[!important]
>Because the html filles don't have any script tag, Webpack relies on the entry points and the `chunks` option to know which html file is using which js file.

```js
// webpack.config.js
const path = require("path");
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require("html-webpack-plugin"); // new

module.exports = {
  mode: "development",
  entry: "./src/index.js",
  output: {
    filename: "main.js",
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist"),
    clean: true,
  },
  plugins: [ // new
    new HtmlWebpackPlugin({ // new
      template: "./src/template.html",  / new
    }),  // new
  ], // new
};

```

To allow webpack access to the `HtmlWebpackPlugin`, I added as a plugin. 
- `new HtmlWebpackPluging()`: constructor call.
- `template`: name fixe option that tells the plugin which HTML file to use as a starting point. 
- `filename`: to set the output HTML file name. 
- `chunks`: tells webpack which bundle to include in each HTML file. 

After running `npx webpack` the dist directory will contain `index.html` (named by default. Which has a deferred script tag), the two files won't be combine. Opening the index file in the browser and the console should show `"Hello, Odinite!`.

>[!important]
>Any changes to the HTML need me to rerun Webpack to generate a fresh dist code.


