---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - async
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.5 Javascript|JavaScript]]

## What are async functions
It's about what happens when part of your program runs now, and another part of your program runs later -- there's a gap between now and later where your program isn't actively executing.  Later doesn't happen strictly and immediately after now. In other words, tasks that cannot complete now are, by definition, going to complete asynchronously.

Async tasks are **not-blocking** because they don't block the callstack. The prompt method is blocking, so its async code. 

>If my async function uses a prompt for example, that blocking behavior is localize to that specific function. 

```js
let data = APIcall(some call);
console.log(data); // undefined
```

>[!error]
>When a async tasks is hardcoded to be sync, regardless of the kind of async task, all JS will be block; big mistake. 
### Common async functions
Reading files, making api calls, database operations, timer and intervals, expecting user input. 

### The async problem
Some task require an undetermined amount of time to complete. So, having functions that async task directly will be using an undefined or wrong expected value. In this example, `getWeather()` is async, is not blocking, that's why console outputs undefined. 

```js
let weather = getWeather();
console.log(weather); // undefined
```

Async tasks solve this problem by coding tasks, without blocking the application, and wait for the async task to finish in order to run. 
## What are sync functions
Code executes line by line, with each line waiting for the previous one to complete. Sync tasks are blocking, so the callstacks has to wait for the task to finish in order to continue. So having a time out follow by a console, will block the callstack, and the console will log after x miliseconds. 
## How to determine if a function is async
Determine if a function is async or not, depend on the context and the logic of the high-end function. However, in Node, most functions are async. 

In this example, node is reading a number from a file:
- `addOne()` is regular function definition, not a high-end function.
- `readFile()` is a high-end function because is taking a callback as an argument. 
- `doneReading()` is a callback function that will execute once the high-end function `readfile()` ends. 

```js
var fs = require('fs') // require is a special function provided by node
var myNumber = undefined // we don't know what the number is yet since it is stored in a file

function addOne() {
  fs.readFile('number.txt', function doneReading(err, fileContents) {
    myNumber = parseInt(fileContents)
    myNumber++
  })
}

addOne()

console.log(myNumber) // logs out undefined -- this line gets run before readFile is done
```