---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - javascript
  - npm
mn: "[[12.5 Javascript]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.5 Javascript|JavaScript]]

This file list all the packages my project depends on, specifying the version, allowing the file to be reproducible. This file is share amongst everyone using the codebase, thus, everyone wilkl be using the same config and commands 

## Create a new `package.json`
Use `npm init` within my main script file or index.html, and then answer the questions. 
### Personalize questionnaire 
1. Create a file named `.npm-init.js`. 
2. Add questions to the prompt function 

```js
module.exports = prompt("what's your favorite flavor of ice cream, buddy?", "I LIKE THEM ALL");
```

## Manipulating the package
Use the CLI to update and manage the package to avoid accidental errors. Write the dependencies doesn't mean they are install; if I hard-code a dependency, I must run `npm install`. 

>[!error]
>However, is not recommended to manipulate the package writing or hard-coding something in it.
## `package.json` fields
The following are the defaults fields for a basic project, all fields can be change during the question after executing `npm init`. 

I add manually the keywords property that's use to describe my package or project. 
### Example of a simple package
```js
{  
  "name": "your-project-name",  
  "version": "1.0.0",  
  "description": "",  
  "main": "index.js", // Entry point
  "scripts": {  
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"  
  },    
  "keywords": ["webpack", "react", "component", "ui", "frontend"],
  "author": "",  
  "license": "ISC"  
}
```


## `npm install <package-name>`
Command that install the require dependencies into the `node_modules` folder and updates the `package.json` file. Once the dependencies are install, I can run the npm scripts that use that package.

>[!important] about --save and --save-dev
>- `--save` has become the default flag (so I don't need to include it when executing the command) for the `npm install` command and will install and updates the dependencies in my `package.json` as production dependencies.
>- `--save-dev` or `-D` updates the `devDependencies` in the package. Dependencies only for local development and testing (linter, testing, libraries, etc.).

^7557e5

This is an example installing the moment dependency as a [[22.5 What is npm#^ef0dc5|production dependency]]:

```js
npm install moment --save
```

```js
{  
  "name": "modern-javascript-example",  
  "version": "1.0.0",  
  "description": "",  
  "main": "index.js",  
  "scripts": {  
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"  
  },
  "author": "",  
  "license": "ISC",  
  "dependencies": {  // new
    "moment": "^2.22.2"  // new
  } // new
}
```

In this example, the dependency is `"markdownlint-cli2": "^0.12.1"`, and the package name is "curriculum." So, once the package is installed, the fours scripts can be executed. 

```json
{
  "name": "curriculum",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "[The Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/) (TOP) is an open-source curriculum for learning full-stack web development. Our curriculum is divided into distinct courses, each covering the subject language in depth. Each course contains a listing of lessons interspersed with multiple projects. These projects give users the opportunity to practice what they are learning, thereby reinforcing and solidifying the theoretical knowledge learned in the lessons. Completed projects may then be included in the user's portfolio.",
  "scripts": {
    "lint:lesson": "markdownlint-cli2 --config lesson.markdownlint-cli2.jsonc",
    "lint:project": "markdownlint-cli2 --config project.markdownlint-cli2.jsonc",
    "fix:lesson": "markdownlint-cli2 --fix --config lesson.markdownlint-cli2.jsonc",
    "fix:project": "markdownlint-cli2 --fix --config project.markdownlint-cli2.jsonc"
  },
  "license": "CC BY-NC-SA 4.0",
  // I could name this Dependencies insted of devDependencies
  "devDependencies": {
    "markdownlint-cli2": "^0.12.1"
  }
}

```
## Sharing the package
Instead of sharing the `node_modules` folder I can share my package file and my coworker just needs to run `npm install`. 
## Best practices when writing a package 
Keep it simple: Break down complex tasks into smaller scripts. 
Meaningful names: Use descriptive names to understand script's purpose. 
Avoid hardcoding: Store paths and values in environment variables. 
Use dependencies: Let NPM handle installation instead of scripts. 
Modularize scripts: Extract reusable logic into separate functions. 
Handle errors: Exit gracefully on failures for clear feedback. 
Document it: Add comments explaining what each script does. 
Pre/post scripts: Utilize them for setup/cleanup before/after main scripts. 
Test our scripts: Ensure they behave as expected in different scenarios. 
Review and refine: Regularly maintain and improve our scripts. 