---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - css
  - keyframes
mn: "[[12.7 HTML and CSS]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.7 HTML and CSS|HTML and CSS]]

## Animation stage
Where the animation properties are defined for the animated element. Set an 'initial' stage. All of the animation properties can be use within pseudo classes to add extra functionality. When sing the shorthand, the order of the values don't matter. 

```css
#ball {
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  background-color: red;
  border: 1px solid black;
  border-radius: 50%;
  
  animation-duration: 2s; //ms
  animation-name: change-color;
  animation-iteration-count: infinite;
  animation-direction: alternate; //normal, reverse, alternate-reverse
  // The shorthand
  animation: 2s change-color infinite alternate;
}
```

- `animation-name` property represents a custom name for the `@keyframes` section. 
- `animation-iteration-count` can be set to infinite, 1, 2, etc. Don't think of one iteration as a whole loop, one iteration is traverse one single time from 'from' to 'to', so two cycles are one loop, one from red to green, then from green to red. 
- `animation-direction` property decides if our animation should alternate direction on the completion of one cycle, or reset to the start point and repeat itself, it controls the order of the sequence (alternate and infinite will make the animation move back and forth). If the keyframe multistep animation from and end are the same, probably I should use alternate. Its default value is normal going from 0 to 100 over the duration. 

```css
@keyframes grow-and-shrink {
    0% {
      transform: scale(1);
    }
    50% {
      transform: scale(1.5);
    }
    100% {
      transform: scale(1);
    }
  }

  .box {
    animation: grow-and-shrink 4000ms;
    animation-iteration-count: infinite;
    animation-timing-function: ease-in-out;
  }
  // Better do this
  @keyframes grow-and-shrink {
    0% {
      transform: scale(1);
    }
    100% {
      transform: scale(1.5);
    }
  }

  .box {
    animation: grow-and-shrink 2000ms;
    animation-timing-function: ease-in-out;
    animation-iteration-count: infinite;
    animation-direction: alternate;
  }
```

The below properties are not part of the shorthand animation property, but are still animation properties:

- `animation-composition: replace | add | accumulate;`: when multiple properties of an element are being animated, use the  rule to decide how to manipulate the rules. [Check this code](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-composition#understanding_the_animation-composition_values) to get more information. 
- `animation-delay`: specifies the delay between an element loading and the start of an animation sequence and whether the animation should start immediately from its beginning or partway through the animation.
- `animation-play-state`: the animation-play-state CSS property sets whether an animation is running or paused. [Check the example from here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/animation-play-state). 
- `animation-timeline`: the animation-timeline CSS property specifies the timeline that is used to control the progress of a CSS animation.
- `animation-timing-function`: allow me to have access to the timing functions [[22.7 What are transitions#Timing functions|timing functions]]. 
- `animation-fill-momde`: because the animation stage style configuration is persistent at the end of the keyframe animation (check [[22.7 Fill modes - the default loop - the animation process#The default loop|this image]]), this property allow to make persistent **the end** of the keyframe animation. `forwards`, make persistent the end, `backwards` makes persistent the `from` or the start of the animation.  ^bbf74d

## Animation longhand and multiple values
Only the long hand accepts multiple values comma-separated. This is useful when applying several animations to a single element. 

```css
animation-name: fadeInOut, moveLeft300px, bounce;
animation-duration: 2.5s, 5s, 1s; // on can be only one: 3s
animation-iteration-count: 2, 1, 5; // 1
```

## Having multiple animations
So I can have multiple key frames that modify specific rules to achieve a result. For example, a slide in animation can modify the translate, and a shrink only the scale, etc. 

```css
p {
  animation-duration: 3s;
  animation-name: growshrink, slidein;
}


@keyframes slidein {
  from {
    translate: 150vw 0;
    scale: 200% 1;
  }

  to {
    translate: 0 0;
    scale: 100% 1;
  }
}

@keyframes growshrink {
  25%,
  75% {
    scale: 100%;
  }

  50% {
    scale: 200%;
    color: magenta;
  }
}

```
## Keyframes
Controls the intermediate steps in a CSS animation sequence by defining styles for keyframes (or waypoints) along the animation sequence. Each keyframe describes how the animated element should render at a given time during the animation sequence. The from or to are optional values. 

```css
@keyframes change-color {
  from {
    background-color: red;
  }

  to {
    background-color: green;
  }
}

// No from or to values
@keyframes growshrink {
  25%,
  75% {
    scale: 100%;
  }

  50% {
    scale: 200%;
    color: magenta;
  }
}
```

`!important` qualifiers within a keyframe percentages are ignored. Key frames can have only a `to` state, to indicate a single shift in the element's CSS. 

The key frames rule uses the animation name defined in the animation stage to change whatever property was defined there from a stage to another. When the animation stops, the element return to its original state. 
### Multi-step animation
Keyframes use a percentage (see code below) to indicate the times for an animation to take place and that the `from` and `to` statements are actually aliases of `0%` and `100%`, respectively. In this example, the animation duration is 2 seconds, thus, from represents 0% and to represents 100%, the 2 seconds.

The timing function applies to **each** step. So the default ease timing function **don't** apply for the entire animation. Check [this](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/animation/keyframe-animations/#multi-step-animations-4) example. 

### Keyframes should be reusable
So any selector can get benefit from a single keyframe animation. First create the animation with keyframe, and then assign it. 

```html
<style>
  /* Create the animation... */
  @keyframes slide-in {
    from {
      transform: translateX(-100%);
    }
    to {
      transform: translateX(0%);
    }
  }

  /* ...and then apply it: */
  .box {
    animation: slide-in 1000ms;
  }
</style>

<div class="box">
  Hello World
</div>
```

### Animate multiple properties
```css
  @keyframes drop-in {
    from {
      transform:
        rotate(-30deg) translateY(-100%);
      opacity: 0;
    }
    to {
      transform:
        rotate(0deg) translateY(0%);
      opacity: 1;
    }
  }

  .box {
    animation: drop-in 1000ms;
  }
```
