---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - html
  - introduction
  - seo
  - boilerplate
mn: "[[12.7 HTML and CSS]]"
kt: theorical
checked: true
---
[[12.7 HTML and CSS|HTML]]
## Introduction
- All the HTML functional files share the same boilerplate.
- The website homepage should be name `index`, because the web servers will by default look for an `index.html` page when users land on the website. 

## The DOCTYPE
Every HTML page starts with a doctype declaration, this tell the browser (what type of file to read and) what version of HTML use to render the HTML document. 

>[!multi-column]
>
>The latest version is HTML 5 and its doctype is `<!DOCTYPE html>`
>
>The doctypes for older versions are more complex, and looked like this: `<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/loose.dtd">`

## HTML element
>[!multi-column]
>
>Known as the root element, meaning, every other element in the document will be a descendant of it. 
>
>This becomes important when manipulating HTML with JS.
### `lang` attribute
Specifies the language of an element; its default value is unknown, so it should always be specified. It improve accessibility technologies and impacting the SEO (if not used); for example, search engines return language-specific results on the SERP (Search Engine Results Page). 

Having different versions of a webpage for different regions or languages required to inform the language. This will help the search engines display the best version based on their language or location. Also, translate browser extensions can use the lang tag to make better translations.  

`lang` attribute don't impact SEO because major search engines don't use this tag to filter search results based on language or location. For example, Google uses the `hreflang` tag to determine the location and language, and Bing uses the `content-language` meta tag. 

>[!multi-column]
>
>HTML 5 allows to use the `lang` attribute with any element:
>
>`<p lang="es">este parrafo esta en español</p>`

## `head` element
Where to put important metadata about each webpage. Inside this tag there should be no elements that display content. 
### `meta` element
All webpages must have `<meta charset="utf-8">` the charset encoding to ensure the webpage will display special symbols and characters correctly.
### `title` element
Provides the title of the webpage tab. `<title>Title of the webpage</title>`. If the title tag is not included, the webpage title will be the file name. 

>More important tags are within the head.
## `body` element
Tag in which all the content will be displayed. 

## A typical boiler plate

```HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
   <meta charset="UTF-8">
   <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
   <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>
   
</body>
</html>
```