---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - css
  - text_styles
mn: "[[12.7 HTML and CSS]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.7 HTML and CSS|HTML and CSS]]

## System fonts
hen displaying a webpage, a browser will travel down a list of font-family values until it finds a font available on the system it is running on. If a defined font is not installed in the user's computer, the font family property will fall back to a defined font, of an HTML default font (if nothing is defined). 

This particular snippet, called font stack, allows to match the font family to the user system's font; detail I'm not changing the font family to an specific type (like impact or Times New Roman). Use this snippet for 'neutral' fonts.

```css
body {
  font-family: system-ui, "Segoe UI", Roboto, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif, "Apple Color Emoji", "Segoe UI Emoji", "Segoe UI Symbol";
}
```

## Web fonts
Using a font that's not available on the user's device will require an import from an online source. This import could have performance issues, so its better to use a font stack. 

>A fallback font should be always required (in case something happen to my external resource). 

## Online font libraries
Usually font libraries provide snippets to import and use font. This snippets could be a link tag to put in the HTML: 

```html
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com">
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.gstatic.com" crossorigin>
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Roboto&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">
```

Or an import tag to put at the top of a CSS file:

```CSS
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Roboto&display=swap');
```

Remember to check [[22.7 Font best practices#Preconnect to critical third-party origins|how to use properly]] the `link` element. 

## Self hosted fonts
I can use a downloaded font from the web by creating a `@font-face` ruleset at the start of the CSS, that should include at least the `font-family` and `src` properties. Once the ruleset is created, I can use the font-family name as a value. 

```CSS
@font-face {
  font-family: my-cool-font; /* Name of the font*/
  src: url(../fonts/the-font-file.woff) format("woff2");
}

h1 {
  font-family: my-cool-font, sans-serif; /*Detail the use of my-cool-font*/
}
```

[question:: How to include fallbacks when using self hosted fonts]

A font **is not** requested when a `@font-face` ruleset is encountered, it doesn't trigger its downloading. Rather, a font is downloaded only if it is referenced by styling that is used on the page. For example, like this. Open Sans would only be downloaded if the page contained a `<h1>` element.

```css
@font-face {
  font-family: "Open Sans";
  src: url("/fonts/OpenSans-Regular-webfont.woff2") format("woff2");
}

h1 {
  font-family: "Open Sans"
}
```

## Font libraries
- Google fonts.
- [Font library](https://fontlibrary.org/).
- [Font bunny](https://fonts.bunny.net/). 