---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - css
  - introduction
  - font_family
  - font_size
mn: "[[12.7 HTML and CSS]]"
kt: theorical
checked: true
resources:
  - 
---
[[12.7 HTML and CSS|HTML and CSS]]
## Typography basics and text-align
### `font-family`
>[!multi-column]
>
>Can be a single value or comma-separated list of values that determine what font an element uses. If a browser can't find or support a font, it'll move to the next one listed until find one supported.
>
>This is why listing family fonts (within quotes) and end with a generic family (without quotes) is a good custom.
>%% %%
>`font-family: "Times New Roman", serif;`
>
### `font-size`
Give a size to the font. No whitespace between the number and the 'unit'. `font-size: 10px;`
### `font-weight`
Affects the boldness of text, assuming the font supports the specified weight; uses a value between 1 and 1000, with increments of 100 up to 900 normally, though this will depend on the font.

If the bold looks off, remember to [[12 Load the fonts|provide a range]]. This allows the browser to take more "boldness", so if I use 200, the browser will try to create a 200 bold font, even it can look off, so provide a range can be useful. 
### Image height and width
>[!multi-column]
>
>To adjust the size without lose its proportions, I could use the following snippet-
>
>```css
>img {
>	height: auto;
>	width: 250px;
>	}
>```


>[!warning]
>- The `height` and `width` properties include in the HTML (if neccessary) won't be overwrite with properties written CSS sheets. 
>- Refer to [[22.7 Aspect ratio, width, height and CLS|this note]] to remember about aspect ratio and CLS.
