---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - css
  - grid
mn: "[[12.7 HTML and CSS]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.7 HTML and CSS|HTML and CSS]]

## Auto-fit
Both of these functions will return “the largest possible positive integer” without the grid items overflowing their container. A use case: You want to give your grid a number of columns that is flexible based on the size of the grid. For example, if our grid is only 200px wide, we may only want one column. If it’s 400px wide, we may want two, and so on.

```css
.example {
  display: grid;
  width: 1000px;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, 200px);
}
```

In this example, the container has a defined width, and the auto-fit value tells the container to create track columns of 200px each. In this specific example, auto-fill will do the same thing.

The real use of auto-fit and auto-fill comes with the use of minmax(). With auto-fit, we can tell our grid that we want to have as many columns as possible, using the constraints of our minmax() function to determine each column’s size, without it overflowing our grid. Check [this pen](https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/abLzzgR), in which the columns will automatically know how many will fit across when the container is being resize. 

>[!info]- Detail explanation of the below code
>So what’s going on here specifically with repeat(auto-fit, minmax(150px, 1fr));? Remember that auto-fit will return the highest positive integer without overflowing the grid. So first, the browser has to know how wide our grid is: in this case, it’s just the window’s width (minus margins) because we didn’t explicitly set it. For the sake of this example, let’s pretend like our window is currently 500px wide. Second, the browser needs to know how many grid column tracks could possibly fit in that width. To do this, it uses the minimum value in our minmax() function, since that will yield the highest number of items, which is 150px. If our window is 500px wide, this means our grid will render 3 columns. But wait, there’s more! Once the browser has determined how many columns we can fit, it then resizes our columns up to the maximum value allowed by our minmax() function. In this case, our max size is 1fr, so all three columns will be given an equal allotment of the space available. As we resize our window, these calculations happen in realtime and the result is what you see in the above example!

```CSS
.grid-container {
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(150px, 1fr));
}
```

## Auto-fill
In most cases, auto-fill is going to work exactly the same way as auto-fit. The difference is only noticeable when there are fewer items than can fill up the entirety of the grid row once. When the grid is expanded to a size where another grid item could fit, but there aren’t any left, auto-fit will keep the grid items at their max size. Using auto-fill, the grid items will snap back down to their min size once the space becomes available to add another grid item, even if there isn’t one to be rendered. They will continue their pattern of growing to max and snapping back to their min as the grid expands and more room becomes available for new grid tracks.

- [Code pen](https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/mdByJyJ) using auto-fit.
- [Code pen](https://codepen.io/TheOdinProjectExamples/pen/KKXwpwX) using auto-fill, and [another](https://codepen.io/rachelandrew/pen/GZQYOL). 