---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - html
  - accessibility
mn: "[[12.7 HTML and CSS]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[12.7 HTML and CSS|HTML and CSS]]


WAI-ARIA define a way to make web content more accessible when native HTML is unable to do so. ARIA must only modify the semantic or context of an element, it **can't** modify appearance, behavior, focusability or keyboard event handling.

WCAG has the five ARIA rules:
1. Always use native HTML elements and attributes over ARIA when possible.
2. Never change native semantics, unless you have no other choice.
3. All interactive ARIA controls must be usable with a keyboard.
4. Never use role='presentation' or aria-hidden='true' on focusable elements.
5. All interactive elements must have an accessible name.

## The accessibility tree
This tree contains only the accessibility information used by the assistive technology. ARIA works modifying properties of the objects that make up the tree. Two of this properties are:
- Name: or accessible name, is what assistive technologies announce to the user and what separates elements of the same type from one another. The name can be set by the content of the element, the `label` element or the `alt` attribute, etc.
- Description: announce by assistive technologies.

## ARIA labels
They override native labels or provide additional descriptive text. Unlike `<label>` (that works only with button, input (except for type="hidden"), meter, output, progress, select and textarea) ARIA labels aren't limited to those the above selectors, but have some limitations instead. 

Several ARIA attributes require the element to have an `id` to create a link between elements. Similar to how `<label>` element's `for` attribute creates a link to an input's `id`. 

### aria-label
When added, the string of the label attribute becomes the element's accessible name (don't work with div or span). Commonly used for close buttons of menus or modals. Do not use aria-label to change how a word is phonetically announced. 

In this example the screen reader will announce 'Close menu, button', instead of 'X, button'.

```html
<button type='button' aria-label='Close menu'>X</button>
```

Another use is with navigation bars. The screen reader will announce 'Main navigation, navigation landmark'. So, each navigation bar should have its own aria label. 

```html
<nav aria-label='main navigation'>...</nav>
```

### aria-labelledby
Overrides both the `aria-label` and the native label