---
note_type: note
tags:
  - web_development
  - php
   - php/server
  - xampp
  - docker
mn: 
- "[[12.8 PHP]]"
kt: theorical
checked: true
resources:
  - "[How To Install PHP & What Are Web Servers - PHP 8 Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KgUp3FomMoc&list=PLr3d3QYzkw2xabQRUpcZ_IBk9W50M9pe-&index=2&ab_channel=ProgramWithGio)"
---
[[12.8 PHP]]

PHP can be installed in OS; this will require to install and configurate a database and a webserver. However, XAMPP provides an all-in-one solution, as they bundle the web server and database (and other tools), and did all the configuration. A better alternative to set up a PHP environment is Docker. 

>[!warning] XAMPP has some trade off like: 
>
>- Is hard to installed multiple versions of PHP and MySQL at the same time.
>- It’s not for production or maintain multiple projects, meaning there could be some differences between my local setup and the real production environment (something that work on my local machine can be broke in production). 
 ### Possible XAMPP error when installing
If a server is running on the same port, XAMPP won't be able to start the database. This can be solve disable the port on the other server or configurating XAMPP 
### Root folder
The `htdocs` folder is where all the website source code (for example, HTML, CSS and JS files) must be place. 

Opening `localhost` with a browser, XAMPP will try to locate an `index.php` file within the document root. If its located, it will serve the website using that `index.php`. If no document is found, it will list the files and directories within the htdocs root folder. 

## Problems with XAMPP
XAMPP is good for small project and set up projects quickly locally. But in production this can cause issues when the development environment is different from the development environment. 



[question:: how to install PHP in a machine; or at least know how to work with something that is not XAMPP]
[question:: How to set up PHP using docker]
