---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - project_management
  - oop
  - requirements
mn: "[[13.2 Project management]]"
kt: theorical
checked: 
resources:
  - "[# Programming Foundations: Object-Oriented Design ## Defining requirements](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/programming-foundations-object-oriented-design-3/defining-requirements?resume=false&u=75841506)"
---
[[13.2 Project management]]

## What are requirements and how to indentify them 

Is the first step when creating an application and answer the question: what does it need to do?. Its divided in functional (what the application needs to do, what are its capabilites) and non- functional (place constrains on how the applicatoin should function, like characteristics rather than features, like: manintainability, readability, usability, availability, etc.) requirements.

To write functional requirements, think in 'must terms', like "the system must do... ", they could be wrote in simple or long specific statements. To write non-functional requiremets, think in 'should be' terms, like "the system should be..."

>Defining requirements has nothing to do with OOP, so a functional requirement like "the system ust inherit meal types from an abstract superclass" is not a functional requirement. Requirements shouldn't contain words like abstraction, class, object, inheritance, etc. 

The requiremenets should not have to be perfect, so focus on the bare necessities, the minimum viable product. This is an interative process. 

## How to classify software attributes / FURPS model 
FURPS (Functionality: capabilities and features of the app, what the customer wants. Usability: afects the person using the program, takes into account the human factor, aesthetics, consistency, is it easy to use? Reliability: how much system downtime is acceptable, takes into account availability, failure rate and duration, and predictability. Performance: dictates application response time, the speed, efficienty, resource consumption. Supportability: dictates if the app can be tested, extended, installed and condigure) act as a checklist to consider when determing requirements.

The FURPS plus model add another four categories:
- Design: constrain in how the app mustbe build (does it require a relational of oo database).
- Implementation: have to be written in an specific language? Which metodologies or standards have to be followed.
- Interface: not the user interface. Should the app interface with an external thing?
- Physical: related to the hardware. 


