---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - clean_code
  - recursion
mn: "[[13.3 Clean code]]"
kt: theorical
checked: false
---
[[13.3 Clean code|Clean code]]
>[!blank-container|float-left]
>```js
>let company = {
>  sales: [{
>    name: 'John',
>    salary: 1000
>  }, {
>    name: 'Alice',
>    salary: 1600
>  }],
>
>  development: {
>    sites: [{
>      name: 'Peter',
>      salary: 2000
>    }, {
>      name: 'Alex',
>      salary: 1800
>    }],
>
>    internals: [{
>      name: 'Jack',
>      salary: 1300
>    }]
>  }
>};
>```


When dealing with nested data, using an iterative approach is not the best as the structure is not linear. If I want to sum all salaries, with that approach the code will have to use at least 4 subloops with multiple if conditions checking if a subloop can iterate (for example, if a property have one sublevel like sales or two like development).

Now, using recursion, analyze the data: 1) Either it’s a “simple” department with an array of people – then we can sum the salaries in a simple loop. 2) Or it’s an object with N subdepartments – then we can make N recursive calls to get the sum for each of the subdeps and combine the results.











When iterate over data I have to main cases:
1. Define the recursive base. In this case, if the data is an array reduce it sum the salaries.
2. The second data is not an array but an object, however I need to iterate over it, so I can use the [[22.5 For...of, map, filter -  arrow functions can use filter and map|for...of]] method, and then, inside of the development object the properties are arrays, this is recursive and its done in the first step so I can invoke the function recursively here.

```js
function sumSalaries(department) {
  if (Array.isArray(department)) { // case (1)
    return department.reduce((prev, current) => prev + current.salary, 0); // sum the array
  } else { // case (2)
    let sum = 0;
    for (let subdep of Object.values(department)) {
      sum += sumSalaries(subdep); // recursively call for subdepartments, sum the results
    }
    return sum;
  }
}

alert(sumSalaries(company)); // 7700
```

>[!important]
>When traversing data, generally, there is one data structure that is a base and other are leaves, in this case, the array is the base and the object is the leaves. The code is working only with those two data structures, objects and arrays. 




