---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - c#
  - classes
mn: "[[13 Programming]]"
kt: theorical
checked: 
---
[[13.7 C Sharp|C#]]

# Class template
Start with the access modifier, followed by the `class` keyword and the Pascal case class name. However, remember the [[23.7 Internal access modifier|internal]] access modifier.

 The `internal` accessor let the class accessible but limited to within the current assembly, so other code that reference the assembly won't have access to the class. If no access modifier is provided, the default class access modifier will be internal. 

```c#
public class MyClass
{
  private int a;
  private string b;

  public void MyMethod()
  {
    Console.WriteLine("Hi");
  }
}
```

The class and all members need to have a specific access modifier, either public, private or protected. 

Classes can be inside of another classes. 
# Class members
## Fields
Initialized class-level variables (usually private) use to store data when instantiating class objects. The object will have a "hollow" copy of the variables (if the access modifier is public, or the property is mapped to a property); the object itself is responsible to assign a value to each field (this is why fields are called instance variables). The class to control, with accessor methods, how to set and display the field.  

Private fields can be modified from within the class. If needed, fields can have default values. 

If a field is wrap within a property, its a convention to name if with `_`.

```c#
public class Person
{
    // This is the backing field
    private string _name;

    // This is the property that uses the backing field
    public string Name
    {
        get { return _name; }
        set { _name = value; }
    }
}
```

- [[23.7 Encapsulation - Properties#About properties|Properties]]: provide access to fields with additional logic to set or retrieve fields, they 'wrap' the fields. 
- Methods: actions the class can perform.
- Constructors: special methods for object initialization.
- Events: notifications to other classes.
- Indexers: allow array like access.
- Operators: define how operators work with class.
- Nested types:  Classes, structs, or enums defined within class
- Constants: constant values.
- Finalizers/Destructors - Cleanup when object is destroyed.