---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - c#
  - syntax
mn: "[[13 Programming]]"
kt: theorical
checked: 
---
[[13.7 C Sharp|C#]]

# About types
The compiler will ensure the type declared on a variable through their lifetime **remains** the same. Expressions and return values also must have a type.

When specifying the type, C# and .NET:
- Knows before-hand the size and location in memory allocated for that variable. 
- The data type dictates where the data will be stored, either on the heap or the stack. 
- The type gives information of the data range can be stored (min and max value). 
- The type also dictates what operations the data can perform, I can add two ints, but not two Booleans. 

# Pre-defined types
## Primitive data types
All primitives that are not declared will have a default value. 

Primitive values are: booleans, int (uint), float, double, decimal (highest precision), char (use single quotes), byte (sbyte), short (ushort), long (ulong), decimal.

## Other types
This are not primitives, but a re considered pre-defined types as well:
- Byte: store 8-bit integers, between 0 and 255. Only positive values. For negative values use sbyte. 
- Short (ushort): store 16-bit integers. 
- Object: useful when using user-defined types.
- String.

# Types are constant
Once a variable has a defined type, it can’t change its type later on. `int c = 3;` `c = true;`, is not possible. This is verify even at compile time, and type errors should not happen at runtime. 

# 'Range' checking
When a type variable is created, C# checks not only the value correspond to the type declared, but the value is within the range.  `byte numberOfEmployees = 300;` will trigger an error. 