---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - c#
  - web_development
  - .net_web_api
  - rest
  - caching
mn:
  - "[[12 Web Dev]]}"
  - "[[13.7 C Sharp]]"
kt: theorical
checked:
---
[[13.9 ASP.NET Core Web API|ASP.NET Core Web API]]
# About caching
The cacheable constraint states that each response should define itself as a cacheable or not. One approach to that is by adding a response header to determine if the resource is cacheable. 

A new HTTP caching RFC was release, the RFC 9111, but is not fully supported yet. The notes will apply to this new and old versions. 

The goal of caching:
- Eliminate the need to send requests in many case, reducing the amount of network-roundtrips, using an expiration mechanism. 
- Eliminate the need to send full responses in many other cases. Reduce the network bandwidth, using a validation mechanism. 
## Cache as a separate layer
Cache is a separate component between the client application and the API. This layer:
- Accept requests from the consumer of the API.
- Receives responses (that could be forwarded to the consumer) from the API and stores them if they are deemed cacheable. If the same response is requested again, the cache can send the cached response. 

# Cache types
## Client/browser cache
Browser (in case of web, local storage for example) or private cache (in case of mobile app). Is private because the resources are not share with anyone else. 
## Gateway cache
The cached resources are shared across different applications. Lives on the server. Other names for this are reverse proxy caches or HTTP accelerators. This is the cache that is immediately put in front of API. 
## Proxy cache
Share cache that lives on the network, not on the server. 