---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - c#
  - web_development
  - .net_web_api
  - rest
  - validating
mn:
  - "[[12 Web Dev]]}"
  - "[[13.7 C Sharp]]"
kt: theorical
checked:
---
[[13.9 ASP.NET Core Web API|ASP.NET Core Web API]]

To validate: define and check validation rules, and report to the consumer. Often the response body contains a set of validation error messages the client app could use to show to the user. 
# Defining validation rules
In ASP use data annotation to create validation rules on properties or classes. They can be built-in or custom. 

Another way of creating custom rules is using the `IValidatableObject` interface on the object to validate. 

Validation rules validate input and not output. 
# Checking validation rules
In ASP use the built-in concept of `ModelState` which is a dictionary containing the state of the model and model binding validation; a collection of name value pairs that were submitted to the API, one for each property. 

Also contains a collection of error messages for each value submitted. So, when a request comes in, the defined rules are check, if one is not check out or an invalid property type is passed in, the `ModelState.IsValid` property will be false.

# Reporting validation errors
When a validation error happens the consumer needs to be notified, the 422 status code (unprocessable content) means the server understands the content type header of the request, so don't use a 415. 

Reporting is not only about the status code but the response body 