---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - c#
  - web_development
  - .net_web_api
  - services
mn:
  - "[[12 Web Dev]]"
  - "[[13.7 C Sharp]]"
kt: theorical
checked:
---
[[13.9 ASP.NET Core Web API|ASP.NET Core Web API]]

# About DI
DI is an specialization of [[23.9 Inversion of Control|the IoC]] pattern which use an object-container (a DI container) to initialize and provide objects to the required dependencies. 

(Following [[23.9 The problem before DI#Service registration|this example]]) Instead of Acontroller work directly with LoggerService, introduce an interface. 

Don't let the class, that will use the service, to be responsible of creating the instances of the service is one the main problems to resolve; that should be a third-party responsibility besides passing those instances to the class for they use. 

That is resolve with dependency injection, where the dependencies, the instances of the services, classes, interfaces, etc. Are injected to the class that need the instances via a DI container. 

So, the services (think of a service as a big action that any controller need, and each sub-action will have its own class and its own interface) are register in the container, but are ""managed"" by its own interface (of the class, service, etc.), thus, when a service is needed anywhere in the code, is requested through the interface, and the DI container is responsible of retrieving the instance and injected it where it's needed. 

>[!important]
>- Every time a class instance will be used by another class, that class, the one that provides the instance, should be register in the DI container. 
>- Thanks to DI, the dependencies can easily be tested, the class becomes easier to test because the dependencies can be mocked providing a mocked version of the interface of the instance. 

## Advantages of DI
- The class that need the service can deal with the interface and not the any implementation or other classes directly.
- Services can be gathered under one single interface, for example, an email service can be created with different implementations (each one is a class), but being managed under a single interface. 
# DI in ASP.NET Core
ASP.NET Core comes with a built in DI container (that could be replace, but is enough for most apps), hence, all services needed should be register at the start up of the application.    