---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - c#
  - web_development
  - .net_web_api
  - deploy
mn:
  - "[[12 Web Dev]]}"
  - "[[13.7 C Sharp]]"
kt: theorical
checked:
---
[[13.9 ASP.NET Core Web API|ASP.NET Core Web API]]

For example, when HTTPs request are proxied over HTTP, the original HTTPS scheme is lost and must be forwarded in a header. When the app receives a request from the proxy and not its true source, the originated client IP address would also be lost. 

# What Happens When a Request Reaches Azure?
When a client send a request to the Azure hosted API, it doesn't go directly to the app, but to several intermediate components that Azure provides to manage traffic, improve performance, security, etc. For example:

- Proxy Servers: Act as intermediaries between the client and your application.
- Load Balancers: Distribute incoming traffic across multiple instances of your application to ensure high availability and scalability.
- Firewalls or Security Gateways: Protect your application from malicious traffic.
- API Gateways: Manage and route API requests, often adding additional functionality like rate limiting or authentication.

# How These Components Affect the Request
Some information about the original request (for example, IP address, protocol, port, etc.) might be obscured or modified because the components act on behalf of the client (not the app), so the app sees the request as coming from a component (e.g. the load balancer), rather than the original client. Other components might rewrite parts of the request for routing or security purposes.

The information the components modify is usually forwarded in a request header to the next component. 

This can cause problems if the app relies on certain details about the original request 
## Forwarded by headers
Azure use special headers to forward information that are added to the request by the intermediate components. Some common headers are:
- X-Forwarded-For: Contains the original client’s IP address.
- X-Forwarded-Host: Contains the original host name requested by the client.
- X-Forwarded-Proto: Contains the original protocol (e.g., HTTP or HTTPS) used by the client. Updates the scheme.

This headers are configure in the middleware that extracts and use that information to forward the necessary information for the app to behave correctly. 