---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - c#
  - web_development
  - .net_web_api
  - searching
mn:
  - "[[12 Web Dev]]"
  - "[[13.7 C Sharp]]"
kt: theorical
checked:
---
[[13.9 ASP.NET Core Web API|ASP.NET Core Web API]]

# About deferred execution
EFC use LINQ to built and use queries. Referred execution is the idea that a query is not executed immediately when is defined (when the query commands are hard-coded) but only when the result is needed, for example, when the code enumerate the results (calling `.ToList()`, `.FirstOrDefault()`, `.ToArray()`), iterating using `foreach` loop construct, create singleton queries (queries like count, average, first, first or default) because to get those queries the list has to be iterated. 

# How it works
A query variable stores query commands and not the query results. The query definition using LINQ or using a `IQueriable<T>`, the query is defined, but not executed.

`IQueriable<T>` creates an expression tree, this allows data to be analyzed, transform or compiled at runtime. Expression trees allow LINQ queries to be represented as data, enabling deferred execution

The variable hold the LINQ query, but no data has been fetched from the db yet. 
```c#
var query = _context.Cities.Where(c => c.Name.StartsWith("A"));
```

The where clause is represented as an expression tree that is passed to the EFC which translates it into a SQL query.

```c#
// This is what EFC see thanks to the expression tree
SELECT * FROM Cities WHERE Name = 'New York'
```


That's why, in methods like [[23.9 Searching and filtering results#Return the collection|this one]] the filtering and querying LINQ statements are built, and then, at the end of the method implementation there's a call to the `ToListAsync()`, to execute the query. 

# Why is it useful
- To build complex incremental queries.
- Queries can be modify based on runtime conditions before executing it.

```c#
var query = _context.Cities.AsQueryable();

if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(name))
{
    query = query.Where(c => c.Name == name);
}

if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(searchQuery))
{
    query = query.Where(c => c.Name.Contains(searchQuery));
}

var results = await query.ToListAsync(); // Query is executed here
```