---
note_type: note
tags:
  - programming
  - c#
  - web_development
  - .net_web_api
  - unit_testing
  - mocks
mn:
  - "[[13.9 ASP.NET Core Web API]]"
kt: theorical
checked:
---
[[13.9 ASP.NET Core Web API|ASP.NET Core Web API]]

# About test isolation
Isolating test also means isolate the test from factory classes, repositories, custom services, etc. In summary, the more isolated the test, the more the result (pass or fail) represents the state of the code I'm testing.

In the previous notes the real repository wasn't used, instead, a repo with mock data. Calling the real db won't make the test isolated, it'll be an integration test then.
# How to achieve isolation
Test doubles guarantees isolation. Test doubles are when a production object is replaced for testing purposes. 

They have categories:
- Fake: implementations of a dependency that is not suitable for production. For example, a SQL-lite in memory db.
- Dummy: when the test double is never accessed or used. For example, when a class is used to create an instance, but nothing else.
- Stub: test double that provides fake data to the system under test. For example, an instance of an employee.
- Spy:  object capable of capturing indirect output and providing indirect input as needed. Is like a sub-class of the testing class that adds additional behavior before or after the actual method on testing. 
- Mock: object that implements the expected behavior, without using a real production object. 
# Test isolation approaches
1. Manually create test versions of the dependencies, be it fakes, dummies, etc. This is not the most effective approach.
2. Use built-in functionality or framework to create test doubles. 
3. Use a mocking framework. 

>Different approaches and test doubles can be use in a single test.

