---
note_type: note
tags: 
  - articles/productivity
mn: "[[19.1 Productivity]]"
kt: theorical
checked: yes
resources: 
- "[Learning to Code: When It Gets Dark (freecodecamp.org)](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learning-to-code-when-it-gets-dark-e485edfb58fd#.yjh0fehje)"
---
# Summary
## Realize that everyone experience resistance. 

- Sure, one thing might come easier for them, and that could be coding, but I assure you there are 10 other things they wish they could do more easily but still struggle with.
- What you feel is Resistance. It is natural, and it can be your friend if you use it as your compass. It is a sign that tells you that you are on the right path, the path of personal growth.

## Every day counts
- Well, this is where your mind is playing tricks on you. You don’t look at a professional violinist and think to yourself: “Oh, I’ve been learning to play the violin for a year now, how come I’m not performing at anywhere close to their level?” But with coding, many of us do that every time.
- You take a person who you consider to be a solid developer and ignore everything else about that person. You think: “It’s simple. They’re a great coder, and I am not. That’s it.”
- You don’t take into consideration how that person might have struggled with programming or math and worked hard to surmount those difficulties, or might have spent countless nights after work stuck trying to comprehend error messages, and worrying about the same things as you are
- Think of the strength (psychological, emotional) that you’ve developed during your journey. Your will and resilience increase each time you make a decision to go further, to not stop where you are and to not admit defeat. **Every day you code is the day you’ve won.**

## Go all in
- The idea I am trying to convey is that if you worry that you don’t have enough time to learn to code, it’s probably just your fear that is lying to you. This happened to me — I would often wonder: how long will it take me to learn this while working full-time? Is there any chance I will actually follow through?
- Remember that the more effort that you are put in today (not plan to put in tomorrow), the faster you will get there.
- The thing I am sure about is — if a person stays with coding long enough and makes the practice deliberate — they will get to any level they aspire to.

By deliberate practice, I mean:

- examining the bugs and problems in the code
- going back to certain problems and trying to solve them in a better way
- reading other people’s code to see how they solved these problems
- refactoring your old code